README.md, before:

# Buttons TabBar

[![Pub](https://img.shields.io/pub/v/buttons_tabbar.svg)](https://pub.dev/packages/buttons_tabbar)

Open source Flutter package, tabbar where each tab indicator is a toggle button.

Made by [Afonso Raposo](https://afonsoraposo.com).

See the full example [here](https://github.com/Afonsocraposo/buttons_tabbar/tree/master/example/example.dart)

Install and import the package. Then just customize its parameters.

## Installation

```yaml
dependencies:
  flutter:
    sdk: flutter
  buttons_tabbar: ^1.3.2
```

## Screenshots

#### Default

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Afonsocraposo/buttons_tabbar/master/doc/screenshots/screen1.jpg" alt="ButtonsTabBar screen" width="400" />
<br>
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Afonsocraposo/buttons_tabbar/master/doc/screenshots/screen2.gif" alt="ButtonsTabBar screen animation" width="400" />

---

## ButtonsTabBar - Examples

#### Example #1

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Afonsocraposo/buttons_tabbar/master/doc/screenshots/example1.jpg" alt="ButtonsTabBar - Example #1" width="400" />
<br>

```dart
DefaultTabController(
          length: ...,
          child: Column(
            children: <Widget>[
              ButtonsTabBar(
                backgroundColor: Colors.red,
                tabs: ...,
              ),
              Expanded(
                child: TabBarView(
                  children: ...,
                ),
              ),
            ],
          ),
        )

```

#### Example #2

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Afonsocraposo/buttons_tabbar/master/doc/screenshots/example2.jpg" alt="ButtonsTabBar - Example #2" width="400" />
<br>

```dart
DefaultTabController(
          length: ...,
          child: Column(
            children: <Widget>[
              ButtonsTabBar(
                backgroundColor: Colors.blue[600],
                unselectedBackgroundColor: Colors.white,
                labelStyle:
                    TextStyle(color: Colors.white, fontWeight: FontWeight.bold),
		unselectedLabelStyle: TextStyle(
                    color: Colors.blue[600], fontWeight: FontWeight.bold),
                borderWidth: 1,
                unselectedBorderColor: Colors.blue[600],
                radius: 100,
                tabs: ...,
              ),
              Expanded(
                child: TabBarView(
                  children: ...,
                ),
              ),
            ],
          ),
        )
```

#### Example #3

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Afonsocraposo/buttons_tabbar/master/doc/screenshots/example3.jpg" alt="ButtonsTabBar - Example #3" width="400" />
<br>

```dart
DefaultTabController(
  length: 6,
  child: Column(
    children: <Widget>[
      ButtonsTabBar(
        radius: 12,
        contentPadding: EdgeInsets.symmetric(horizontal: 12),
        borderWidth: 2,
        borderColor: Colors.transparent,
        center: true,
        decoration: BoxDecoration(
          gradient: LinearGradient(
            colors: <Color>[
              Color(0xFF0D47A1),
              Color(0xFF1976D2),
              Color(0xFF42A5F5),
            ],
          ),
        ),
        unselectedLabelStyle: TextStyle(color: Colors.black),
        labelStyle: TextStyle(color: Colors.white),
        height: 56,
        tabs: ...,
      ),
      Expanded(
        child: TabBarView(
          children: ...,
        ),
      ),
    ],
  ),
)
```


---

## ButtonsTabBar Parameters

| Parameter                 | Type            | Description                                                                                                                              | Default                                 |
| ------------------------- | --------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------- |
| **tabs**                  | `List<Widget>`  | The tabs to display. Typically a list of two or more `Tab` widgets.                                                                      | **`@required`**                         |
| controller                | `TabController` | This widget's selection and animation state.                                                                                             | `DefaultTabController.of`               |
| duration                  | `int`           | The duration in milliseconds of the transition animation.                                                                                | `250`                                   |
| backgroundColor           | `Color`         | The background color of the button on its selected state.                                                                                | `Theme.of(context).accentColor`         |
| unselectedBackgroundColor | `Color`         | The background color of the button on its unselected state.                                                                              | `Colors.grey[300]`                      |
| decoration                | `BoxDecoration` | The `BoxDecoration` of the button on its selected state.                                                                                 | `null`                                  |
| unselectedDecoration      | `BoxDecoration` | The `BoxDecoration` of the button on its unselected state.                                                                               | `null`                                  |
| borderWidth               | `double`        | The with of solid `Border` for each button.                                                                                              | `0`                                     |
| borderColor               | `Color`         | The border color of the button on its selected state.                                                                                    | `Colors.black`                          |
| unselectedBorderColor     | `Color`         | The border color of the button on its unselected state. If it's value is `null`, the `Color` of `borderColor` is used.                   | `null`                                  |
| labelStyle                | `TextStyle`     | The `TextStyle` of the button's `Text` on its selected state. The color provided on the TextStyle will be used for the `Icon`'s color.   | `TextStyle(color: Colors.white)`        |
| unselectedLabelStyle      | `TextStyle`     | The `TextStyle` of the button's `Text` on its unselected state. The color provided on the TextStyle will be used for the `Icon`'s color. | `TextStyle(color: Colors.black)`        |
| physics                   | `ScrollPhysics` | The physics used for the `ScrollController`of the tabs list.                                                                             | `BouncingScrollPhysics`                 |
| contentPadding            | `EdgeInsets`    | The `EdgeInsets` used for the `Padding` of the buttons' content.                                                                         | `EdgeInsets.symmetric(horizontal: 4.0)` |
| buttonMargin              | `EdgeInsets`    | The `EdgeInsets` used for the `Margin` of the buttons.                                                                                   | `EdgeInsets.all(4.0)`                   |
| labelSpacing              | `double`        | The spacing between the `Icon` and the `Text`. If only one of those is provided, no spacing is applied.                                  | `4.0`                                   |
| radius                    | `double`        | The value of the `BorderRadius.circular` applied to each button.                                                                         | `7.0`                                   |
| height                    | `double`        | Override the material TabBar height value.                                                                                               | `46.0`                                  |
| center                    | `bool`          | Center the tab buttons.                                                                                                                  | `false`                                 |

---

## Future

If you have any suggestion or problem, let me know and I'll try to improve or fix it.

## License

GNU General Public License v3.0, see the [LICENSE.md](https://github.com/Afonsocraposo/buttons_tabbar/tree/master/LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

Added elevation, fixed box shadow #25

README.md, after:

# Buttons TabBar

[![Pub](https://img.shields.io/pub/v/buttons_tabbar.svg)](https://pub.dev/packages/buttons_tabbar)

Open source Flutter package, tabbar where each tab indicator is a toggle button.

Made by [Afonso Raposo](https://afonsoraposo.com).

See the full example [here](https://github.com/Afonsocraposo/buttons_tabbar/tree/master/example/example.dart)

Install and import the package. Then just customize its parameters.

## Installation

```yaml
dependencies:
  flutter:
    sdk: flutter
  buttons_tabbar: ^1.3.3
```

## Screenshots

#### Default

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Afonsocraposo/buttons_tabbar/master/doc/screenshots/screen1.jpg" alt="ButtonsTabBar screen" width="400" />
<br>
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Afonsocraposo/buttons_tabbar/master/doc/screenshots/screen2.gif" alt="ButtonsTabBar screen animation" width="400" />

---

## ButtonsTabBar - Examples

#### Example #1

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Afonsocraposo/buttons_tabbar/master/doc/screenshots/example1.jpg" alt="ButtonsTabBar - Example #1" width="400" />
<br>

```dart
DefaultTabController(
          length: ...,
          child: Column(
            children: <Widget>[
              ButtonsTabBar(
                backgroundColor: Colors.red,
                tabs: ...,
              ),
              Expanded(
                child: TabBarView(
                  children: ...,
                ),
              ),
            ],
          ),
        )

```

#### Example #2

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Afonsocraposo/buttons_tabbar/master/doc/screenshots/example2.jpg" alt="ButtonsTabBar - Example #2" width="400" />
<br>

```dart
DefaultTabController(
          length: ...,
          child: Column(
            children: <Widget>[
              ButtonsTabBar(
                backgroundColor: Colors.blue[600],
                unselectedBackgroundColor: Colors.white,
                labelStyle:
                    TextStyle(color: Colors.white, fontWeight: FontWeight.bold),
		unselectedLabelStyle: TextStyle(
                    color: Colors.blue[600], fontWeight: FontWeight.bold),
                borderWidth: 1,
                unselectedBorderColor: Colors.blue[600],
                radius: 100,
                tabs: ...,
              ),
              Expanded(
                child: TabBarView(
                  children: ...,
                ),
              ),
            ],
          ),
        )
```

#### Example #3

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Afonsocraposo/buttons_tabbar/master/doc/screenshots/example3.jpg" alt="ButtonsTabBar - Example #3" width="400" />
<br>

```dart
DefaultTabController(
  length: 6,
  child: Column(
    children: <Widget>[
      ButtonsTabBar(
        radius: 12,
        contentPadding: EdgeInsets.symmetric(horizontal: 12),
        borderWidth: 2,
        borderColor: Colors.transparent,
        center: true,
        decoration: BoxDecoration(
          gradient: LinearGradient(
            colors: <Color>[
              Color(0xFF0D47A1),
              Color(0xFF1976D2),
              Color(0xFF42A5F5),
            ],
          ),
        ),
        unselectedLabelStyle: TextStyle(color: Colors.black),
        labelStyle: TextStyle(color: Colors.white),
        height: 56,
        tabs: ...,
      ),
      Expanded(
        child: TabBarView(
          children: ...,
        ),
      ),
    ],
  ),
)
```


---

## ButtonsTabBar Parameters

| Parameter                 | Type            | Description                                                                                                                              | Default                                 |
| ------------------------- | --------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------- |
| **tabs**                  | `List<Widget>`  | The tabs to display. Typically a list of two or more `Tab` widgets.                                                                      | **`@required`**                         |
| controller                | `TabController` | This widget's selection and animation state.                                                                                             | `DefaultTabController.of`               |
| duration                  | `int`           | The duration in milliseconds of the transition animation.                                                                                | `250`                                   |
| backgroundColor           | `Color`         | The background color of the button on its selected state.                                                                                | `Theme.of(context).accentColor`         |
| unselectedBackgroundColor | `Color`         | The background color of the button on its unselected state.                                                                              | `Colors.grey[300]`                      |
| decoration                | `BoxDecoration` | The `BoxDecoration` of the button on its selected state.                                                                                 | `null`                                  |
| unselectedDecoration      | `BoxDecoration` | The `BoxDecoration` of the button on its unselected state.                                                                               | `null`                                  |
| borderWidth               | `double`        | The with of solid `Border` for each button.                                                                                              | `0`                                     |
| borderColor               | `Color`         | The border color of the button on its selected state.                                                                                    | `Colors.black`                          |
| unselectedBorderColor     | `Color`         | The border color of the button on its unselected state. If it's value is `null`, the `Color` of `borderColor` is used.                   | `null`                                  |
| labelStyle                | `TextStyle`     | The `TextStyle` of the button's `Text` on its selected state. The color provided on the TextStyle will be used for the `Icon`'s color.   | `TextStyle(color: Colors.white)`        |
| unselectedLabelStyle      | `TextStyle`     | The `TextStyle` of the button's `Text` on its unselected state. The color provided on the TextStyle will be used for the `Icon`'s color. | `TextStyle(color: Colors.black)`        |
| physics                   | `ScrollPhysics` | The physics used for the `ScrollController`of the tabs list.                                                                             | `BouncingScrollPhysics`                 |
| contentPadding            | `EdgeInsets`    | The `EdgeInsets` used for the `Padding` of the buttons' content.                                                                         | `EdgeInsets.symmetric(horizontal: 4.0)` |
| buttonMargin              | `EdgeInsets`    | The `EdgeInsets` used for the `Margin` of the buttons.                                                                                   | `EdgeInsets.all(4.0)`                   |
| labelSpacing              | `double`        | The spacing between the `Icon` and the `Text`. If only one of those is provided, no spacing is applied.                                  | `4.0`                                   |
| radius                    | `double`        | The value of the `BorderRadius.circular` applied to each button.                                                                         | `7.0`                                   |
| height                    | `double`        | Override the material TabBar height value.                                                                                               | `46.0`                                  |
| center                    | `bool`          | Center the tab buttons.                                                                                                                  | `false`                                 |
| elevation                    | `double`          | The value of `elevation` applied to each button.                                                                                                                  | `0`                                 |

---

## Future

If you have any suggestion or problem, let me know and I'll try to improve or fix it.

## License

GNU General Public License v3.0, see the [LICENSE.md](https://github.com/Afonsocraposo/buttons_tabbar/tree/master/LICENSE) file for details.
